[Back](../)

21/10/2025

# Week 6 21/10/2025 - Arduino blinky and traffic lights

## Baud rate
For practical purposes, the baud rate is the rate of communications between the
sender and receiver.
With regrards to debugging, this is the rate data is sent from the board and the
rate the debugger expects to recieve the data at.

More technical explaination
The baud rate is the symbol rate in symbols per second.
A symbol is a waveform, a state or a signigicant condition of the communcation
channel which persists for a fixed period of time.
Each symbol may encode one or several binary digits (bits).

## Recap questions

Q1. Look closely at your Arduino board – what Microcontroller does it have on it?
- Atmel ATMEGA328p U

Q3. Find the pinMode function in the slides, what do you think the two parameters are?
- input and output

## Extension Questions

E1. Find the datasheet for the microcontroller on your Arduino – theoretically, would the chip be suitable for use inside a domestic freezer where the temperature could be between -18 and -25 degrees Celsius?
- Yes, thermal limits are -40°C -> 85°C

E2. Can you find out what package type the microcontroller on your Arduino is?
- ATmega328P is the microcontroller

E3. Assuming each of the 12 parts in the Starcats coffee maker example only required one digital Input or Output pin, would your Arduino have enough pins?

## Extension Challenges

X1. Alter your code to flash ‘SOS’ in morse code using the LED on your Arduino (S = 3 long flashes, O = 3 short flashes) followed by a 3 second delay with the LED off.

X2. Alter your code to output each letter over the serial monitor once it has been ’flashed’ in morse code.

[Code is here](/Electronics/Circuits/Morse_Code_Hello_World)

"hello world" in morse code

<video width="100%" controls>
    <source src="/Images/Morse_Code_Hello_World.mp4" type="video/mp4">
    Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

X3. Using components in your kit connect 3 LEDs to your Arduino on digital pins 5, 6 and 7 (connect the positive leg of the LEDs to the Arduino pins and the other leg to ground through a resistor), try to light them in sequence like a traffic light. Hint: Use your existing code as a template using the pin numbers instead of LED_BUILTIN, don’t forget to initialise the new pins in setup(), work in small increments testing as you go.

[Code is here](/Electronics/Circuits/Traffic_Lights_Arduino)

<video width="100%" controls>
    <source src="/Images/Traffic_Lights_Arduino_My_Circuit.mp4" type="video/mp4">
    Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>
