[Back](./)

25/11/2025

# Nucleo32 Development board (STM32F042K6T6)
[User manual](https://www.st.com/content/ccc/resource/technical/document/user_manual/e3/0e/88/05/e8/74/43/a0/DM00231744.pdf/files/DM00231744.pdf/jcr:content/translations/en.DM00231744.pdf)

## Things to do
- What are the power requirements?
    - Can I power the board with a normal usb plug into the mains?
- What's the difference between the ARM chips
    - ARM Cortex-M0 core
- Write notes on each peripheral
    - ADC (Analog-to-Digital converter)
    - Timers
    - SPI
    - I2C
    - UART
    - USB 2.0 full-speed device controller (apparently important for the 042
line (which I think is mine)
- What is the ST-LINK/V2-1?
- What is a Virtual COM port?
- What is the reset line?
    - SB1 controls the reset line

## Overview
This is the development board I purchased, based on the STM32F0 series featuring the ARM Cortex-M0 core.

I bought this board after watching an Artful Bytes video [here](https://youtu.be/MhOba73z-dQ?si=kzJGtIz1Sl28MU88).

The board appears to be small and simple. My aim is to deep dive into it's
workings. With the hope to progress onto more complicated boards in the future.

- Flash: 32KB of embedded flash for storing program code
- SRAM: 6KB of SRAM (static ramdom-access memory) for data storage during
runtime.
- Clock speed: up to 48MHz
- I/O: 29 I/O pins
- Peripherals
    - ADC (Analog-to-Digital converter)
    - Timers
    - SPI
    - I2C
    - UART
    - USB 2.0 full-speed device controller (apparently important for the 042
line (which I think is mine)
- ST-LINK/V2-1 debugger/programmer
    - This is apparently what allows me to upload and debug code.
    - It provides a virtual COM port (for serial communication with your
computer
- Power: Can be powered via USB connector or external power supply
- User interface
    - User LED: A green LED (LD3) 
    - Reset button: At the opposite end the power


## Initial power on
The onboard LED begins flashing when powering on (plugged into my laptop)

This is the quick start guide foundin the user manual.
### Getting started
Follow the sequence below, to configure the STM32 Nucleo-32 board and launch the
demonstration software:

- Check [solder bridge](/STM32/solder_bridge) position on the board, SB1 OFF, SB14 ON (internal regulator), JP1 ON (IDD) selected.
- To correctly identify all device interfaces from the host PC before connecting the board, install the Nucleo USB driver, available at the www.st.com/stm32nucleo webpage.
- To power the board, connect the STM32 Nucleo-32 board to a PC through the USB connector CN1 with a USB Type-A or USB Type-C ® to Micro-B cable. The red LED LD2 (PWR) and LD1 (COM) light up and the green LED LD3 blinks.
- Remove the jumper placed between D2 (CN3 pin 5) and GND (CN3 pin 4).
- Observe how the blinking frequency of the green LED LD3 changes when the jumper is in place or when it is removed.
- The demonstration software and several software examples on the STM32 Nucleo-32 board features, are available at the www.st.com/stm32nucleo webpage.
- Develop an application using the available examples.

#### Check solder bridge
Check solder bridge position on the board, SB1 OFF, SB14 ON (internal regulator), JP1 ON (IDD) selected.

The SB (solder bridges) and JP (jumper) control the boards power path and power
measurement capabilities.

- JP1 ON (IDD)

## Glossary
- [solder bridge](/STM32/solder_bridge)
- JP: jumper
- [Virtual COM port](/STM32/virtual_com_port)
- ON: permanently connected
- OFF: unconnected
- [ST-LINK](/STM32/ST_LINK)
